# Solutions for Assignment 2<br><br>
1. Let G be a secure PRG. Then which of the following is not a a secure PRG?<br><br>
a) G1(s)
def
= G(s)||s<br>
b) G2(s)
def
= G(s)||G(s)<br>
c) G3(s)
def
= G(s) ⊕ G(s)<br>
d) G4(s)
def = 1||G(s), where || denotes the concatenation operation<br><br>
None of the constructions is a secure PRG. For G1, the seed is completely revealed in the output. For G2, the first half of the
output is exactly the same as the second half, which happens for a true random string with negligible probability. The output
of G3 is always all zeros, which happens for a true random number generator with a negligible probability. The output of G4
always starts with 1, which happens only with probability 1/2 for a true random number generator. <br><br>So the answers are **a**, **b**,
**c** and **d**.<br><br><br><br><br>
2. Which of the following is(are) true about PRG?<br><br>
a) A PRG is a deterministic algorithm<br>
b) A PRG is a randomized algorithm<br>
c) We can construct a PRG, which is secure against a computationally unbounded adversary<br>
d) A computationally unbounded adversary can always determine the seed of a secure PRG, by seeing the output of the
PRG<br><br>
The answers are **a** and **d**.<br><br> The output of a PRG is a deterministic function of its input. And a computationally unbounded
distinguisher can always launch a brute-force attack and recover the seed of a PRG with a non-negligible probability.<br><br><br><br><br>
3. Select the incorrect statement(s):<br><br>
a) While using a PRG, same key can be used for every instance of encryption<br>
b) If G(s) is a secure PRG, then G1(s)
def
= G(s)||G(s + 2) is also a secure PRG<br><br>
Both the statements are incorrect. Since the output of a PRG for a fixed key is same, the output can be used only for one
instance of encryption. To prove that G1 is not a PRG, on contrary assume that G1 is a secure PRG. Then consider another
construction, say G2, where G2(s)
def
= G1(s)||G1(s + 2). Now if the “method” of constructing G1 from G yields a secure
PRG, then so should be the case of constructing G2 from G1. Now G2(s) = G1(s)||G1(s + 2) = G(s)||G(s + 2)||G(s +
2)||G(s + 4). Clearly, G2 is not a PRG, as the second and third output blocks of an output produced by G2, will always
be the same, a property which is very unlikely to hold for an output generated by a TRG. Thus, the outputs of G2 can be
significantly distinguished apart from outputs of a TRG. In summary, the construction in part b can be viewed as counter
mode of operation of a PRG, which is not secure. <br><br>So the answers are **a** and **b**.<br><br><br><br><br>
4. Let G : {0, 1}
m → {0, 1}
n be a secure PRG. Then which of the following is/are false?<br><br>
a) G'
: {0, 1}
2m → {0, 1}
n, where G'
(s1||s2)
def
= G(s1) ⊕ G(s2) is a secure PRG<br>
b) G'
: {0, 1}
2m → {0, 1}
m+n, where G'
(s1||s2)
def
= s1||G(s2) is a secure PRG<br>
c) G'
: {0, 1}
2m → {0, 1}
n, where G'
(s1||s2)
def
= G(s1) ⊕ G(s2) is a not a secure PRG<br>
d) G'
: {0, 1}
2m → {0, 1}
m+n, where G'
(s1||s2)
def
= s1||G(s2) is not a secure PRG<br><br>

The construction G'
: {0, 1}
2m → {0, 1}
n, where G'
(s1||s2)
def
= G(s1) ⊕ G(s2) is a secure PRG. This is because the
probability distribution of G(s1) is computationally indistinguishable from that of a true random number generator. And
similarly, the probability distribution of G(s2) is computationally indistinguishable from that of a true random number
generator. Moreover, XOR of two random/pseudorandom strings is also a random/pseudorandom string. Similarly, the
construction G'
: {0, 1}
2m → {0, 1}
m+n, where G'
(s1||s2)
def
= s1||G(s2) is a secure PRG. Even though s1 is revealed, it is
indistinguishable from a random string, while G(s2) is pseudorandom. <br><br>So the answers are **c** and **d**.<br><br><br><br><br>
5. Let G1 : {0, 1}
x → {0, 1}
y
and G2 : {0, 1}
x → {0, 1}
y be secure PRGs and let G(s)
def
= G1(s)||G2(s). Then which of the
following is/are true?<br><br>
a) Function G is a PRG<br>
b) Function G is a true random number generator<br>
c) Function G is not a PRG<br><br>
The outputs G1(s) and G2(s) are pseudorandom and concatenation of two pseudorandom strings is pseudorandom. <br><br>So the
answer is **a**.
